#Home
= Cornell Spectrum Imager Documentation =

==<font color='gray'> Download </font>==
[http://cornell-spectrum-imager.googlecode.com/files/CSI%20v1.5.dmg Download ImageJ and CSI for Mac]

[http://cornell-spectrum-imager.googlecode.com/files/CSI%20v1.5%20%2864bit%29.exe Download ImageJ and CSI for Windows]   (on Windows 7 or Vista, don't install in 'Program Files', but a directory that has write permissions, like 'Documents'.

[http://cornell-spectrum-imager.googlecode.com/files/CSI_v1.5%20source.zip Download only the plugins]


You should also increase the allocated memory after installing by selecting 'Edit..Options..Memory and Threads'


==<font color='gray'> About </font>==
Cornell Spectrum Imager is a free, open-source software tool for spectral analysis written by [http://www.paulcueva.com Paul Cueva], [http://www.roberthovden.com Robert Hovden] and David Muller from Cornell's School of Applied and Engineering Physics.

If this software is used in published research, please cite:
"Data Processing For Atomic Resolution EELS", Paul Cueva, Robert Hovden, Julia A. Mundy, Huolin L. Xin, David A. Muller, _Microscopy and Microanalysis_ *18*, 667-675 (2012) [http://journals.cambridge.org/action/displayAbstract?fromPage=online&aid=8653673  DOI:10.1017/S1431927612000244]



== <font color='gray'>FrequentlyAskedQuestions </font>==
[FrequentlyAskedQuestions#Importing_and_Exporting_Data - Importing and Exporting Data]

[FrequentlyAskedQuestions#Principal_Components_Analysis_(PCA) - Principal Components Analysis (PCA)]

[FrequentlyAskedQuestions#General_Troubleshooting - General Troubleshooting]


==<font color='gray'> [PapersUsingCSI]</font>==
A list of papers that have used CSI to process data.  If you use CSI, email a link to your paper and we'll add it to the list.

==<font color='gray'> Known Bugs</font>==
A list of [http://code.google.com/p/cornell-spectrum-imager/issues/list known bugs] - that will hopefully be fixed soon.  If you find a bug, please report it  [http://code.google.com/p/cornell-spectrum-imager/issues/list here] or email us.

== <font color='gray'>Acknowledgments </font>==
Funded by DOE BES Award #DE-SCOO02334 (PC) and NSF NSEC #EEC-0117770, 06465470 (RMH). 

==<font color='gray'> More Details </font>==

An overview of the tool can be found in the article "The Open-Source Cornell Spectrum Imager", Paul Cueva, Robert Hovden, Julia A. Mundy, David A. Muller, _Microscopy Today_ *21*, 40-45 (2013). [https://code.google.com/p/cornell-spectrum-imager/downloads/detail?name=CSI_Tutorial_v1.5.pdf doi:10.1017/S1551929512000995]

Detailed discussion of the software with particular application to EELS analysis is discussed in our manuscript:"Data Processing For Atomic Resolution EELS", Paul Cueva, Robert Hovden, Julia A. Mundy, Huolin L. Xin, David A. Muller, _Microscopy and Microanalysis_ *18*, 667-675 (2012). [http://journals.cambridge.org/action/displayAbstract?fromPage=online&aid=8653673  DOI:10.1017/S1431927612000244] [http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.3059 Preprint] [http://journals.cambridge.org/abstract_S1431927612000244 Article]

[http://rsb.info.nih.gov/ij/docs/guide/user-guide.pdf ImageJ User Guide]

Also Visit: [http://research.engineering.cornell.edu/muller/csi.cfm The Muller Group Home Page]